In the last lecture I've tried to explain how the registration works inside Lara.
Now let's see how we can log in and log out.
So we are currently logged in and redirected to their home page.
As I explained in the last lecture how it works.
So that's the default page.
We are redirected to when we register.
So this is this simple home page.
It is just displaying this simple view and part of this layout created by Lara is also this nice box
here where you can log out.
So let's press it now and now you can see that we are redirected to some page and then immediately to
log in to log in again because it is being protected.
So that's our home which we are also redirected.
And it is being protected by this our middleware.
Now there is another controller created for us by law although it also lives inside HDP controllers
out and it is called Log In controller so it is also pretty simple it you can see that it only has a
field called redirect to and as the description says that's the place you will be redirected to when
you will log in.
So this is one where you can configure that.
So sometimes you would like to lead users to a certain page and lets say different users that maybe
have different permissions you would like to lead them to a different page maybe to the last page they
visited before bank logged in and also this is a good idea how you can configure it because this works
the same as I explained before so you can either have this protected to redirect to field or you can
have a method in which you will decide where to actually you redirect the user so by default it is redirecting
to hold.
Now another interesting thing is this constructor inside this log in controller as you can see it also
is using the middleware guest which means the authentication is not required but it is not required
for older end points that this or all the actions that this controller has except for the logout because
this makes sense.
You can only log out when you are previously authenticated so by the way this is also a way you can
specify individual actions that certain middleware has to apply to.
Lets say you would like to authenticate some of the actions inside the home controller.
Let's imagine we do not have it but let's imagine we have the contact method here and we only want out
A.K. the home.
So what you will do except
contact so we only would have authentication required for this index action.
So this works both ways.
It can work for any middleware and this just specifies which actions the middleware should be applied.
So this should be pretty simple now.
And the logging controller is actually also using this trait that comes from LA travel and you can see
that it has this show logging form which simply shows the logging form and let's find it.
It's actually defined here.
So you of course do not have to write this action because if you will just create a view inside this
folder.
Let's find it out of logging.
So we will do that ourselves later.
Then you wouldn't have to even create this action you can just use this authenticates users straight
inside your logging controller and you're all set mind that it also is using this redirects users the
same as with the registration controller and that's the one responsible for this redirect puff so we
can define the method redirect to all the field redirect to.
Now let's go back to this trade it was closed let's open it again now.
So we have the logging methods.
So it actually is doing a couple of things and I've prepared a diagram for it.
So let's try to see how the authentication flow is actually looking.
So first we have this authentication log in controller.
And the first thing that this controller or actually this trade is doing is it is verifying the user
name and password input using the validate logging method.
So if you go to this method here you can see that it is using the validator to verify if the user name
and password is present and it is a string.
And by the way it is using this this user name method here instead of specifying the field that should
be used for user name because you can configure it as I've said in the last lecture you can configure
it here.
So get the log in user name to be used by the controller and it is by default e-mail you can change
it.
For example user name or any other any other field of the User model.
So this is the first place.
If this forum that you send the logging and password from would have something valid data it would be
out to magically redirect it.
Now there is also this additional part which we won't explain in detail right now but it is just checking
if you have tried to log in too many times with invalid data.
So this will log that account for some time.
So this is what it is doing.
It's checking for previous failed attempts.
If there are too many it will just log to account for some time.
We'll get to that later and let's not complicate things right now.
Now the final thing it is trying to do is attempting to log in so that's it attempt logging and this
method is actually using the Guard component attempt method.
And it is specifying their credentials.
So this attempt method accepts an array of credentials which you can see here the request.
It's getting the data from request and only would get only those two fields specified so the user name
whatever the field you define it to be and the password.
So if it will succeed it will just return true.
Now additionally it has the option to support remembering the logged in users using cookies.
But while of course let's not complicated further we'll get to that later.
So you can see that's there attempting to log in.
And also this guard method is returning the default configured Guard component.
So we haven't explained guards yet.
We'll do that in just a second.
Now guards attempt tries to authenticate user with given credentials.
Of course this credentials returns the names of the fields from the request that should be used.
So their user name or password you can also configure that.
By the way.
And then the final step is the sent logging response so let's see inside the code what this is actually
doing.
Let me find that sent logging response.
So if they attempt logging was successful it is sending their response which you can see is regenerating
this session it's clearing any previous failed attempts to logging.
And finally it is redirecting to the path which you have specified so that's this step and that final
step is to redirect the user to the path that was specified.
Now I was mentioning this Guard component a couple of times and now let's see.
Maybe by a simple diagram what this what sorry what this Guard component looks like.
So you can have many Guard components specified but each of this Guard components has a driver and the
user provider.
Those are basically the properties of each individual Guard component.
Now the driver could be one of two.
So it is either this session or the token.
So the session would keep the user logged in using the BHP session mechanism and the token is used for
the API.
Which would install the user session as you know it or not.
The HDP protocol is stateless so it doesn't really allow anyone to keep any state in between requests.
So this is the wider P2P session mechanism is used for traditional pagers and a token mechanism is used
for API is because when you are using API is you always sent next requests.
So your first log in you get the token back and then you have to include the top token with each next
request which then authenticates you again.
And the second component of this Guard component is the user a provider so user provider decides where
and how the users should be fetched.
So the user provider component has a driver property.
And this is also one of two.
It's either an eloquent model or just database driver.
So eloquent would just use one of your lock and models.
And in our case we are of course using the user model and the database will let you just use simple
plain queries to fetch the users.
So basically that means you can fetch users from different places.
It doesn't have to be the default connection that you have and you are using for your models you can
fetch users from basically any storage.
It could even be different database or it could even be fetched for HDP requests.
So that's why it is being separated into components you can create your own user providers.
So now you do not really have to configure all that because by default everything regarding authentication
is pre configured for you.
So let's find it.
So you have to go to the conflict folder and find that file.
So our BHP file so it has some defaults.
So as I've said there is a default and Guard component and the default Guard component is web.
So there is also passwords property which is used for resetting passwords.
But let's ignore it for now.
And now we have our out integration guards defined so as I've said the Guard component has driver and
provider.
So there are two guards defined by default.
One is called Web.
And the second API so the web Guard is using the session driver.
So this is how you are used to in older traditional pages that it works.
You have a session you send log in and password through the forum and then on each individual page.
This credentials are taken from the session so you don't have to log in again and provider means that
this user's provider should be used.
And it is also defined below.
So we'll see that in a bit.
And then this API Guard is using driver token which means that tokens should be included in each individual
HP to be request.
We haven't touched on the writing API yet so this might seem a little bit confusing.
But of course you will probably understand it better when we'll create our first simple API.
So now let's go to the user providers.
So here we have the provider as defined.
So as you see the users doesn't relate to the users table on our database it is actually their own name
that you can give to all of your providers.
So this actually means the name of the user provider you can define as many user providers as you like
for example you can just copy that and specify users to and here specify for example a different model
that you would like to use.
Now as I've said the user provider has a driver.
So let's see that again.
It has a driver.
It's either eloquent or database.
So by default by default it is using eloquent and specifying our well-known User class as being the
model to use.
So basically why this is split into all these components.
It is done because it lets you create authentication components using different methods of authentication.
So let's imagine you would like to use tokens and then you can use the same components like you can
use guard attempt methods to log in a user and you don't really have to worry how it is being handled
inside because we can of course write this logic ourselves without the Guard component at all.
You can just for example make a simple query to the database you do not have to really use this components
but it really helps you organize the code and logic into single blocks.
That's why I've put our boxes here to see to signal that it is basically components and the main is
Guard which has some smaller boxes inside of it and then you can just use their simple methods from
GA to verify if the user is authenticated to actually log in a user and a lot of other things.
And then what is behind it like how users are fetched.
You do not really have to worry about it because you use it as like you would connect like you would
connect Lego blocks.
So you just connect whatever you need whenever you need like different user provider different drivers
for the Guard components and it just all works using one single guard interface.
So those were the user providers.
So as I've said you can define as many as you need and the final section from this configuration file
is how you would reset users.
It also has its own name.
So that's why we had to specify it here.
So this is not the user stable it's the name of the mechanism to reset passwords and it is using the
user provider user's specified here.
So it's called users everywhere.
It might be confusing but it is actually the on OWN the name of this provider if you would rename it.
Let's say X X X you will specified here like that.
So that might be a bit confusing why it's users everywhere.
And then it specifies which table should be used for password resets and when do they expire.
So it's specifying that time.
So this is how the logging in would work.
And now I think we have enough basics to understand how all these components work so we can reset this
code or at least I can do it because I hope you haven't run the BHP make off command and then we can
see how that works step by step and do this logging and registration form ourselves in our own layout.